---
layout: post
title:  "What are HRVs and ERVs?"
date:   2024-12-23 12:00:00 -0700
categories: ADU
---

As houses are constructed more airtight thus reducing the amount of indoor air exchange by natural leakage, heat recovery ventilators (HRVs) and energy recovery ventilators (ERVs) are seeing wider use.

Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) is made worse by the release of gases from fossil fuel combustion or occupant activity, by particulate matter released from cooking and by other pollutants in the home.
In leaky houses, uncontrolled ventilation naturally occurred to mitigate these problems, but with consequent loss of energy and comfort.  The controlled solution is to provide balanced mechanical ventilation by an HRV or ERV. 

Both devices have air-to-air heat exchangers to transfer heat in the winter months from warmer indoor exhaust air to preheat the supply of colder fresh outdoor air and opposite in the summer.
An ERV adds a desiccant to the heat exchanger element to remove moisture from humid outside air in the summer or to add it to cold dry air in the winter.  

In other words, the ERV keeps moisture on the same side of the building envelope (outside in summer, inside in winter).
The intent is to maintain indoor humidity in the 40% to 60% range year-round.
HRVs typically recover 55-75% of the heat from the outgoing air, while ERVs can recover up to 70-80% of the energy in the outgoing air.

Thus an HRV is more suitable for colder, dryer climates whereas the ERV is more suitable for hot humid climates.  However, there is not one right choice between an ERV or HRV. It depends on your climate, your lifestyle and your home. 
The less volume of air per person, the more you might need to dry out the air with an HRV. Therefore, a small ADU with two or three people living in it might be too humid indoors for an ERV and should use an HRV.

The units run continuously since currently there are no practical sensors to measure IAQ and control the operation of the exhaust fan. 
To size a unit, the natural leakage in air changes per hour is first measured by a blower door test. Then the unit is set to provide additional air flow to meet building ventilation codes based on the projected number of occupants and size of the house.

For best performance the device should be ducted independently of the heating and air conditioning system to remove air from rooms like the kitchen and laundry and supply it to bedrooms and living rooms.
However, due to cost considerations, the unit can draw inside air from bathrooms or a central hallway and provide it to the regular heating and AC return duct for distribution.

